# CS-465
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

Angular was used for the front end of this project to create a single page app . Angular uses compoenents which was made up of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. HTML was used to display the content and the CSS is for the styles, while the JavaScript was used to create functionality. The back end of this application used Node with the express framework to handle our models, views, controllers, and routes. This made a MongoDB NoSQL databse a clear choice since the whole application can be written using JavaScript.
The difference between JSON and Javascript is that JSON is mainly used for the purpose of storing data. Data os formattted in JSON when it is transmittetd to the backend server or from the back end to the front end. JSON is easily converted into Javascript which makes it a good option when developing applications.
One instance of refactoring code can be seen in the views folder, which contains a handlebars version of the travel page. This version of the website has greatly improved functionality and efficiency when compared to the normal travel.html page. It makes use of partials, which are essentially templates. As the Travlr webpage has repeated content, using these partials makes coding the webpages much easier. The travel handlebar view also pulls trip data directly from the trip database, as opposed to using hardcoded data. This means that the handlebar view of the webpage will always display the most up to date information whenever the database is updated with new trip entries. Using these templates allows you to not hard code your application and makes it easier to update in the future.
API endpoints are the locations in a program where requests for information are sent to. These endpoints are used in combination with certain data related methods, such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. By making use of these methods and endpoints together, you can allow users to push new information into the database, edit existing data, or view existing records. Implementing security for these endpoints is essential, as if there is no protection unauthorized users would be able to make access of them and gain access to all of the information held inside the database. Security was implemented using a hashing algorithm.
This course has taught me lot that will help me reach my professional goals. Leanring new techngologies such as Angular and EXpress were very interesting. I also like learning about how the files structure of a full stack application should be set up and how to separate layers of the application using MVC. I found it very practical to learn about different HTTP request and how to test them using Postman. I feel that I have become more comfortable using NoSQL databases now with more experience using MongoDB.
